README.md, before:

# Heroku SignalFx Collector

A Golang Heroku app that collects metrics from apps and reports them to SignalFx. The Heroku SignalFx Collector
collects the following metrics - 

- Application metrics
- Heroku Dyno metrics
- Custom metrics

**Note**: Application and Heroku Dyno metrics will be prefixed by `heroku.` in SignalFx.

## Setup

At a high level, the collector runs as a HTTPS Log Drain app on Heroku. See [here](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/log-drains#https-drains) for more information.

### Deploying Heroku SignalFx Collector

**Clone this repo**

```
git clone git@github.com:signalfx/heroku-signalfx-collector.git
```

**Create a Heroku app**

```
cd heroku-signalfx-collector/
heroku create

# Add Golang buildpack
heroku buildpacks:add heroku/go
```

**Configure the collector**

Use the following environment variables to configure the collector

| Environment Variable             | Description                                                                              | Example                                  |
|----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| `SFX_TOKEN`                      | SignalFx access token of the org to which data needs to be sent (**required**)           | `somevalidtoken`                         |
| `SFX_INGEST_URL`                 | Ingest URL to which data needs to be sent (**required** if `SFX_REALM` is not set)       | `https://ingest.us0.signalfx.com`        |
| `SFX_REALM`                      | SignalFx realm to which data is to be sent (**required** if `SFX_INGEST_URL` is not set) | `us0`, `us1`, `us2`, `eu0`, `ap0`        |
| `SFX_METRICS_TO_EXCLUDE`         | Comma separated metric names that the collector should not emit                          | `metric_name1,metric_name2,metric_name3` |
| `SFX_DIMENSION_PAIRS_TO_EXCLUDE` | Comma separated dimension key value pairs that the collector should not emit             | `key1=val1,key2=val2`                    |
| `SFX_REPORTING_INTERVAL`         | Reporting interval of the collector in seconds. Default value is 10 seconds              | 20                                       |
| `SFX_INTERNAL_METRICS`           | Whether or not to report internal metrics (set to `true` by default)                     | `false`                                  |

**Configure Heroku App to send logs to SignalFx Collector**

Enable Heroku log run-time metrics

```
heroku labs:enable log-runtime-metrics
```

See [here](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/log-runtime-metrics) for more information.

**Configure Heroku App to expose Dyno metadata**

```
heroku labs:enable runtime-dyno-metadata
```

This metadata is required by internal metrics to report accurate dimensions for fields like `app_name` and `dyno_id`.

See [here](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/dyno-metadata) for more information.

Follow the steps below so that an app sends logs to the collector

```
heroku drains:add "https://<SFX_COLLECTOR_APP_NAME>.herokuapp.com?app_name=<APP_NAME>"
```

**Note:** The above command expects `SFX_COLLECTOR_APP_NAME` to be the name of SignalFx Collector
app and `APP_NAME` to be the Heroku app to monitored. Use `heroku apps:info | grep '===' | cut  -d' '  -f2`
to set the app name. Passing in the `app_name` parameter is **required**. `app_name` is added as
dimension to datapoints being by the collector.

**Deploy the collector to Heroku**

```
git push heroku master
heroku ps:scale web=1
```

### Sending in custom metrics

This app looks for logs of the following format. This is the standard format in which Heroku exposes default metrics.
Custom metrics defined in the following format can be collected and emitted by the app.

```
\<(?P<pri>\d+)\>(?P<version>1) (?P<timestamp>\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}T\d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}(?:\.\d{6})?\+\d{2}:\d{2}) (?P<hostname>[a-z0-9\-\_\.]+) (?P<appname>[a-z0-9\.-]+) (?P<procid>[a-z0-9\-\_\.]+) (?P<msgid>\-) (?P<message>.*)$
``` 

**IMPORTANT:** All the fields in the above expect for the the last (`message`) field are generated by the Heroku
platform. `message` field will contain application logs. This is where metrics and dimensions should be defined.

An example custom metric log that the collector can detect:

```
gauge#quota_used=20 cumulative#response_bytes=100 sfxdimension#service=backend sfxdimension#client=sfx_app
```

The above log message from an application would be interpreted as 2 datapoints, from `quota_used` (a `gauge` with value `20`)
and `response_bytes` (a `cumulative counter` with value 100) metrics, and both datapoints with `service=backend` and
`client_sfx_app` dimensions.

Use the following keywords to (identify key-value pairs as metrics or dimensions) construct custom metrics

- gauge# -  `gauge` type
- counter# - `counter` type 
- cumulative# - `cumulative counter` type 
- sfxdimension# - `dimension`

### Internal Metrics

The collector reports internal metrics by default. Below is a list of internal metrics.

| Metric Name                       | Description                                                                                                                                               |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `sfx_heroku.total_drain_requests` | Number of drain requests received by the collector                                                                                                        |
| `sfx_heroku.tracked_metrics`      | Number of metrics collected per metric type. Metric types are determined by the dimension called `type` (i.e., `cumulative_counter`, `counter`, `gauge`). |

**Note**: These metrics are collected by default and can be turned off by setting `SFX_INTERNAL_METRICS` to `false`.

Commit message:

Add note about specifying custom dimensions (#2)

README.md, after:

# Heroku SignalFx Collector

A Golang Heroku app that collects metrics from apps and reports them to SignalFx. The Heroku SignalFx Collector
collects the following metrics - 

- Application metrics
- Heroku Dyno metrics
- Custom metrics

**Note**: Application and Heroku Dyno metrics will be prefixed by `heroku.` in SignalFx.

## Setup

At a high level, the collector runs as a HTTPS Log Drain app on Heroku. See [here](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/log-drains#https-drains) for more information.

### Deploying Heroku SignalFx Collector

**Clone this repo**

```
git clone git@github.com:signalfx/heroku-signalfx-collector.git
```

**Create a Heroku app**

```
cd heroku-signalfx-collector/
heroku create

# Add Golang buildpack
heroku buildpacks:add heroku/go
```

**Configure the collector**

Use the following environment variables to configure the collector

| Environment Variable             | Description                                                                              | Example                                  |
|----------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| `SFX_TOKEN`                      | SignalFx access token of the org to which data needs to be sent (**required**)           | `somevalidtoken`                         |
| `SFX_INGEST_URL`                 | Ingest URL to which data needs to be sent (**required** if `SFX_REALM` is not set)       | `https://ingest.us0.signalfx.com`        |
| `SFX_REALM`                      | SignalFx realm to which data is to be sent (**required** if `SFX_INGEST_URL` is not set) | `us0`, `us1`, `us2`, `eu0`, `ap0`        |
| `SFX_METRICS_TO_EXCLUDE`         | Comma separated metric names that the collector should not emit                          | `metric_name1,metric_name2,metric_name3` |
| `SFX_DIMENSION_PAIRS_TO_EXCLUDE` | Comma separated dimension key value pairs that the collector should not emit             | `key1=val1,key2=val2`                    |
| `SFX_REPORTING_INTERVAL`         | Reporting interval of the collector in seconds. Default value is 10 seconds              | 20                                       |
| `SFX_INTERNAL_METRICS`           | Whether or not to report internal metrics (set to `true` by default)                     | `false`                                  |

**Configure Heroku App to send logs to SignalFx Collector**

Enable Heroku log run-time metrics

```
heroku labs:enable log-runtime-metrics
```

See [here](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/log-runtime-metrics) for more information.

**Configure Heroku App to expose Dyno metadata**

```
heroku labs:enable runtime-dyno-metadata
```

This metadata is required by internal metrics to report accurate dimensions for fields like `app_name` and `dyno_id`.

See [here](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/dyno-metadata) for more information.

Follow the steps below so that an app sends logs to the collector

```
heroku drains:add "https://<SFX_COLLECTOR_APP_NAME>.herokuapp.com?app_name=<APP_NAME>"
```

**Note:** The above command expects `SFX_COLLECTOR_APP_NAME` to be the name of SignalFx Collector
app and `APP_NAME` to be the Heroku app to monitored. Use `heroku apps:info | grep '===' | cut  -d' '  -f2`
to set the app name. Passing in the `app_name` parameter is **required**. `app_name` is added as
dimension to datapoints being by the collector.

To add custom dimensions to all datapoints being emitted by the collector, pass in query parameters while configuring
the log drain.

```
heroku drains:add "https://<SFX_COLLECTOR_APP_NAME>.herokuapp.com?app_name=<APP_NAME>&dim1=key1&dim2=key2"
```

For example, configuring a log drain in the manner above will add `dim1=key1` and `dim2=key2` dimensions to all
datapoints being emitted by the collector.

**Deploy the collector to Heroku**

```
git push heroku master
heroku ps:scale web=1
```

### Sending in custom metrics

This app looks for logs of the following format. This is the standard format in which Heroku exposes default metrics.
Custom metrics defined in the following format can be collected and emitted by the app.

```
\<(?P<pri>\d+)\>(?P<version>1) (?P<timestamp>\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}T\d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}(?:\.\d{6})?\+\d{2}:\d{2}) (?P<hostname>[a-z0-9\-\_\.]+) (?P<appname>[a-z0-9\.-]+) (?P<procid>[a-z0-9\-\_\.]+) (?P<msgid>\-) (?P<message>.*)$
``` 

**IMPORTANT:** All the fields in the above expect for the the last (`message`) field are generated by the Heroku
platform. `message` field will contain application logs. This is where metrics and dimensions should be defined.

An example custom metric log that the collector can detect:

```
gauge#quota_used=20 cumulative#response_bytes=100 sfxdimension#service=backend sfxdimension#client=sfx_app
```

The above log message from an application would be interpreted as 2 datapoints, from `quota_used` (a `gauge` with value `20`)
and `response_bytes` (a `cumulative counter` with value 100) metrics, and both datapoints with `service=backend` and
`client_sfx_app` dimensions.

Use the following keywords to (identify key-value pairs as metrics or dimensions) construct custom metrics

- gauge# -  `gauge` type
- counter# - `counter` type 
- cumulative# - `cumulative counter` type 
- sfxdimension# - `dimension`

### Internal Metrics

The collector reports internal metrics by default. Below is a list of internal metrics.

| Metric Name                       | Description                                                                                                                                               |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `sfx_heroku.total_drain_requests` | Number of drain requests received by the collector                                                                                                        |
| `sfx_heroku.tracked_metrics`      | Number of metrics collected per metric type. Metric types are determined by the dimension called `type` (i.e., `cumulative_counter`, `counter`, `gauge`). |

**Note**: These metrics are collected by default and can be turned off by setting `SFX_INTERNAL_METRICS` to `false`.
